On June 26, 2019, in Kaluga, Russia,
mass searches were carried out
in the homes of peaceful believers.
Two of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
Roman Makhnev and Dmitriy Kuzin,
were arrested simply
because of their religion.
I heard a commotion on the street.
When I went out,
I saw two masked men in the courtyard.
I took the keys for the gate
and opened the door.
Several more men were there.
My daughter came out.
She was barefoot,
and they made her stand next to me
on the courtyard flagstone.
It was drizzling.
I asked to let the child put shoes on.
He said, “Later.”
The believer, Roman Makhnev,
was handcuffed, even though in no way
was he ever aggressive or disorderly.
At the same time,
another group of security forces burst
into Dmitriy and Svetlana Kuzin’s apartment.
I was here in this room at home,
watering my plants.
I heard my husband unlocking the door.
I went out of the room
and saw a bunch of people.
My husband
had obviously been knocked down
face-first to the tile floor as he came in.
His hands were
handcuffed behind his back.
Yet another group
of armed law-enforcement officers
raided the home
of 87-year-old Olga Verevkina.
There was a full SWAT team in camouflage.
No warrant was shown.
They demanded, “Get up!”
I said: “I can’t.
I’m infirm.”
My blood pressure went up to 200/115.
According to the believers,
during the searches,
publications from the Federal List
of Extremist Materials were planted
in their homes
and their rights were violated.
I heard Dasha scream:
“This was not in my room!
Explain to me how it got here!”
And I heard my husband’s voice,
saying, “This was planted.”
Just that afternoon,
I was vacuuming under the bed,
and there was nothing there.
No one identified himself.
No documents were shown.
The search began at 9:00 in the evening
and lasted until about 4:30 in the morning.
But for camouflaged security forces
to burst in on old, infirm people
—that’s unbelievable!
It’s quite interesting.
In order to deal with an elderly woman,
our law-enforcement officers
come en masse,
wearing masks, and carrying weapons.
What cowards!
And these people claim
that they are actually fighting extremism.
After the searches,
Roman Makhnev and Dmitriy Kuzin
were taken to the FSB building.
When Papa was taken away,
the only thing I managed to whisper to him
was that I was proud of his integrity.
And then they took him away, and I felt sad.
I was scared.
When they brought Roman to the FSB building,
he was handcuffed to a radiator
in some sort of utility room
and was kept like this until he was called
for questioning in the morning.
It is noteworthy that several hours earlier,
during the searches,
an ambulance was called for Roman Makhnev.
Roman became very ill.
Dasha started to scream.
The FSB called an ambulance,
and it came quickly enough.
He was given medication,
and then he felt better.
Roman was arrested on the 26th,
and they didn’t feed him until the 29th.
Roman Makhnev
was given no food for three days.
They said,
“Well, he could eat
whatever he brought with him.”
Interesting.
I have filed complaints
with various agencies.
On June 28, two days after their arrest,
the Kaluzhskiy District Court sent
Roman Makhnev and Dmitriy Kuzin
to a detention center.
I hope that people will realize
that my dad is not guilty of anything,
and he is not a criminal.
Therefore, I hope that soon he’ll be back,
and we will be together again.
The believers do not agree with the charges,
and they intend to seek justice.
I don’t know if we’ll be able to,
but I’m determined to fight
to the end to help my husband
and to support him.
I very much hope
that common sense will prevail
and that the authorities will finally realize
that we do not present a threat to society,
much less to the State.